---
tags:
  - Interview
---
## How to write a cover letter?
## Hook the Reader

hook the reader in by mentioning a connection with the company. If you do this right, it'll keep them reading past the first paragraph and onto why you should have this position over the other applicants. Let's take a look at what Amanda did in her example. "Everyone tells me the entry-level consultant position in any of the Big 4 firms is gonna be the same. However, after attending five career fairs and speaking with over 20 professionals,
 it has become clear to me EY stands out from the rest." Let's pause right here. In this one sentence, Amanda does three things. She first hooks the reader in by mentioning a common perception about the consulting industry that all entry-level positions are the same. Then immediately contradicting that very statement. Then she shows she's very proactive since she's been attending career fairs. And finally, she makes it clear that something about Ernst and Young, something about EY stands out to her. Aren't you just a tiny bit curious as to what that is? In order for you to replicate what Amanda has done here with her cover letter hook, there's no way around doing some actual research. Number one, speak with a minimum of three industry professionals and ask them targeted questions designed to provide you with specific insight into that role and industry. I've made an entire video on the best informational interview questions to ask doing coffee chats. I'll link that up here and down below. But in a nutshell, you wanna stay away from asking generic questions like, "Tell me about your day to day" and instead, reword that to something like, "What do you find most rewarding about your current role?" By making sales tweaks like this, you prompt the professional to tell you concrete examples that you can use in your cover letter which in turn shows a recruiter, without a shadow of a doubt, you've clearly done your homework. Number two, if you're applying for roles where a software product is involved, such as Google ads, Facebook ads, Office 365, Amazon AWS, Salesforce CRM, you want to go to a website such as G2 and Capterra to get a firsthand look at customer testimonials and reviews since this will help you get a basic understanding of the product in a very short amount of time.
Final tip is to remember the connection you mentioned has to be relatable with the reader who is oftentimes the recruiter or hiring manager. If you're applying for a position in Apple, probably don't say how you're gonna come up with the next big iPhone idea and instead, perhaps bring up their emphasis on privacy and how that's impacting the advertising industry. And for all the fresh grads out there, the less qualified you are for the position, the more important this first paragraph. You need to convince the hiring manager that your motivation, energy, willingness to learn will make you a stronger addition to the team than someone who might have a bit more experience but fail to be interesting in their cover letter. Okay, I spent a lot of time on this first tip because if you don't get this right, none of other stuff matters because they're not gonna keep reading. Let me know down in the comments section below what roles you're applying for, and maybe I can reply with some hook ideas.

## Be Purposeful

Cover letter tip number two, be purposeful about the information you include. Put another way, each paragraph in your cover letter, or rather each sentence, should have a reason for being there. In Amanda's cover letter, there are no wasted words.The first paragraph hooks the reader inand the second paragraph expands on that hook.Too often, candidates start off their cover lettersby saying, "Hi, my name is John.I currently work here and I'm applying for this position."Amanda skipped all that because she realizedher resume and online applicationalready told the recruiter all that information.And the focus of the cover lettershould be on why she, in particular,should be considered for a first round interview. In our third and fourth paragraphs,Amanda highlights relevant achievementsthat tie into the responsibilitiesof the role she's applying for.She spent two summers interningin management consulting firmsand worked on a $2 million project.She developed problem solving and project management skills.And she received recognitionfor always being on top of deadlines.She could have bought up leadership skills, how amazing she is a PowerPoint, or a strong background in data analytics. But she knows to focus on the most important factors the recruiter for this role is looking for. Deal size, project management skills, and reliability. The last paragraph can be a bit more generic since usually you end the cover letter by thanking the reader for his or her time and reinforcing your strong desire to join their company. Amanda adds a little bit of personality here by mentioning again, she has relevant work experience, differentiating her from the other applicants and emphasizing her project management abilities, a core skill of any capable consultant. Also, pro-tip.I just love how she uses the word "asset" here.Not too cocky, not too modest, just right.Cover letter tip number three.

## Use a Simple Template

Use a simple template and pay attention to white space. Just take a look at these two cover letters. Putting the formatting aside, which one do you instinctively prefer to read? Probably this one, especially if this person was able to include all the important information in a concise and structured way. I especially like how the name and address section is in a separate column, meaning you don't have too much awkward white space. And if you saw my resume video, you know that I really like having colored accents to give your cover letter a bit more personality while retaining that overall professional look and feel. And many of you might not know this, but including a relevant job title right below your name
 is beneficial since your cover letter is usually scanned by robots when you upload it and then look for these keywords. Finally, and here's my biggest power tip

## Secret Power Tip

when it comes to cover letter formatting. You might notice the first letter up top in the header here are two sizes larger than the rest. This is by design. So let's bring this back up to the same size. It's 26. Highlight the letters after the first one,
 press command + shift + comma twice to make it two sizes smaller.And now, you're left with a rather uniqueyet professional-looking header for your cover letter.To reward those of you who have stuck around until now,